## Year in review

I would say that even though this years was not the most successful for me, I learned more than I even could imagine. It was and still is a year full of major challenges. It really got me thinking more about the future and made me plan every little step. 

The year before I was lucky enough to get a very good and really well payed job. This led me into this kind of "comfort state" where I did not really care about my future because I had the feeling that others will take care of it. The reality check came when the people I trusted to take care of it failed to do so. They failed for many reasons, biggest of them being their pure incopetence that I wasn't able to recongnize. Or maybe I just didn't want to recognize it. They ran their bussines into the ground with all of their employees on the board. The job and money was no more. 

From this moment a hunt for a new job begun. I got some great conctacts and things seemed to be coming in the right direction but in the end nothing came out as I needed. By the time this happened I already needed to start working on the animated film for my thesis and I had no more time for work. Even though I always considered this as the last choice possible, I luckily still have supportive parents who kindly gave me enough funds to pay the rent and live a decent life. But these events of past year really made me think more as an individual who needs to take care of his future alone by himself and possibly never get back into this blind state of "yolo just trust others because they know what they're doing". I want to be in control of as many things that can affect me as possible to prevent this from happening again. Fails will eventually still happen but if they do, I want to be sure that I did everything in my power to prevent them. 

This individual approach also made me create my own freelance bussines. It is currently in the beginning stages with many things thouroughly planned and thought through. And as soon as I finish this school I will set things in motion. A year ago I would probably never imagine that I would be able or even want to have a freelance bussines. But the past year set me into this mindset of "If the things doesn't come your way, you go against them or create the opportunity yourself".

One of the major challenges this year was also the three minutes long animated movie for my thesis. One of the biggest problems I ran into with this project is actually kind of related to things I already wrote about. I would say that I'm mostly pretty ambitious with my personal projects and I'm always trying to push my work few steps further. Because of this I mostly don't spend much time on preproduction because I got a feeling that the more I think things through the more I realize what a bs I came up with and that it's hard or almost impossible to create it. So till this day, majority of my personal or school projects were one big yolo moment where I dived into my ambitious ideas head first and tryied to learn and deal with things on the way. And believe it or not, somehow it has always worked out pretty well.

But when the thesis project came, I already knew that this is by far the biggest and most ambitious solo thing I get to create. And suprise surprise, the pretty much nonexistent preproduction for such project made it **way** more harder to deal with. Right now the project is almost finished. And fortunately it actually came out pretty well. But it would definitely be better if it was all better planned and thought through. And that's what I want to be better at in general.

I must say that the last 365 days were quite a ride. Never in my life have I felt that I could learn so much and move so far in just a single year. And even though not everything went exactly as I wanted, I was grateful for everything I got to experience and everyone I got to meet during this journey. And I'm genuinly excited about what's yet to come.
